Will the Ethereum ETF kickstart Altseason?

The primary question of the markets is whether or not the strength of the #altcoins are coming back through the Ethereum ETF or that the altcoins are death.

If you’d ask anyone, probably the latter is the conclusion as the downwards momentum keeps on going. And I’m all-in altcoins.

Let’s dive into the reasons for potential changes in the upcoming period.

First of all, I include Ethereum as my altcoin in my portfolio, which means that I’m not that much down since I went all-in in terms of BTC valuations. When we talk about the USD valuations, it hurts, but that’s not my core focus.

The Ethereum ETF, the most underhyped and undervalued event of the year, but probably the most significant one.

Why?

If we go back in time, then the Bitcoin ETF was the big anticipated event of the year as the Bitcoin ETF applicants have been trying to get the ETF for multiple years. After the big win of Grayscale against the government, everything started to speed up significantly, through which the ETF got approved and trading went live.

The Ethereum ETF is basically everything in reversal. Zero expectations, zero hype and if there is any expectation, then it seems like we’re having a negative estimation where investors expect the Ethereum ETF to go down to, potentially, areas of $2,000.

I think that the inflow will be significantly less, although the impact on Ethereum can be significantly larger than the Bitcoin ETF in percentage-terms, as the stock-to-flow of Ethereum is less than that of Bitcoin due to the huge amount of staked Ether and the deflationary concept of Ethereum. It’s a giant, compliant settlement layer and the foundation of the Web 3.0 ecosystem.

Given that the markets have been going into the approval of a few weeks ago with a super negative sentiment, as a matter of fact, it has marked the actual low on the pair between Ethereum and Bitcoin, and is up more than twenty percent since.

The bull market has already started and can only accelerate even more if Ethereum is breaking through the area of 0.06 BTC. If that happens, we can expect a huge influx into the entire Ether ecosystem, which basically means that projects like Arbitrum and Optimism are reversing really soon as well.

Why do I draw that conclusion?

If Ethereum does well, then there’s automatically a higher beta to be achieved within the Ether ecosystem as there will be more usage within this ecosystem, driving more liquidity and developers towards it. From an investor perspective, this means that you’ll be able to look at a higher return on investment by investing into the ecosystem, as through the higher ETH/BTC goes, the more confidence will be coming back in the markets, the higher the actual assets will start to trend.

There are two more arguments leaning towards this.

The cycles are generally providing a case that we’re seeing a weak first half year of the altcoins, after which the cycle reverses and from June onwards, the momentum starts to become stronger towards altcoins and returns can be made. I’ve discussed this earlier, where Chainlink has been providing a return of more than 150% in 2022 and in 2023 in their BTC pairs from the low in May and June.

The final one is the rate cut saga from the FED. Due to the Mt. Gox news, Bitcoin has trended down. However, as we’re looking at a case where the yields on the treasury bonds have been trending down, Bitcoin should normally be trending higher. However, due to the case that the yields are trending down, it’s very likely that we’ll be seeing Bitcoin reverse fast once the dust has been settled.

More and more negative data is coming in on the economic strength in the U.S., through which the arguments for a reversal on crypto is on the horizon. It’s just a matter of time and then we’re going to be seeing a big influx coming into Bitcoin, Ethereum and the whole ecosystem.

Regarding my portfolio, I’m fine with my portfolio as I’m considering the potential upside vs. the potential downside. I don’t mind the current correction, I’m strongly convinced that my strategy and thesis is correct.
